        
        
        - - -These are the annotations that I made when coursing Santander Becas selective process (They have the same material) - - -

        
  
  Networks is a conjunct of two or more electronic devices connected together that can comunicate with each other in a pre-established language called protocol.
  This connection can happen in two ways, through a cable or a wireless connection.

  Some of most utilized cables are:
  -Twisted pair (Unshielded twisted pair and Shielded twisted pair)
  -Coaxial (usually used on Cable Tv)
  -optical cable (Fiber Glass Cable)
  And for wireless connection are:
  - Radio frequency
  - Bluetooth   
  - Infrared 

  These connections are supervised by some norms, including the:

  - NBR 14.565
  - ANSI/TIA 568
  - ANSI/TIA 569

  this is made for establish some parameters such as performance, structure and minimun specifications.

  Some equipament used on a network are:

  NIC (Network Interface Card)
    This is the device responsible for allow the System connect and communicate via cable or wireless to a network.
  HUB
    Hub is a hardware that allows the connection between devices through the twisted cables and connected between they.
    They usually receive signal on 1 channel and reply that signal for a x channels number, so it's a characteristic that they cannot make a direct connection on the network.
  Switch
    Switch is responsible for the trade or redirect the data between the devices, differently from the HUB, they can make a direct connection between the devices.
  Router
    The Router has the responsibility to search and find the best route to send the packages (data) to a destinatary (devices) in the minor tempo possibile. Strongly used on the internet connections.
  Modem
    It's the device responsible for modulation and demodulation of the Internet signal. Usually on domestic use they are modem and Router together.
  Rack
    Used to attatch the equipament of the network system and organization of the cables. It's vital for data centers and network infrastructure.


  Connections protocols 

  OSI Model

  Open System Interconnection model can go in both ways, 1 to 7 and 7 to 1, according to who is communicating
    Navigator to Server: 7 to 1
    Server to navigator: 1 to 7

  7. Application layer
    Provides protocols that allow software to send and receive information that is meaningful to users. Therefore, it is highly used by items such as internet browsers and email clients.
Some examples: HTTP, FTP, POP and DNS.

  6. Presentation
This layer prepares data for the application layer. In other words, it ensures that the information can be used and performs all encryption.

  5. Session
This is where the OSI model creates the communication channels between devices. As the name suggests, this layer is responsible for opening sessions and ensuring that everything is 
functional so that data can be transferred.

  4. Transportation
The transport layer takes the data and breaks it into segments. Then, in the final part, it puts everything back together so that the information reaches the session layer. It transmits through 
protocols such as TCP and UDP.

  3. Network
The responsibility of this layer is to transmit data between one host to another on different networks. Likewise, it is worth pointing out that another important function is to take care of 
routing packets, selecting the shortest path for this.

  2. Data link
It is in this part that the connection between two nodes physically connected in a network occurs. This layer of the OSI model is composed of two parts: logical link control (LLC), which 
identifies and checks errors; and media access control (MAC), which uses MAC addresses to connect and set permissions on devices.

  1. Physical layer
This layer is one of the most important in the OSI model. This is because it is responsible for connecting physical or wireless cables between the entire network. Another feature is that 
the raw data is transmitted from here.

  TCP/IP
    Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol
    He confirm if the data was received.

    1. The application layer provides applications with standardized data exchange. Its protocols include HTTP, FTP, Post Office Protocol 3, Simple Mail Transfer Protocol and Simple Network Management Protocol. 
    At the application layer, the payload is the actual application data.
    
    2. The transport layer is responsible for maintaining end-to-end communications across the network. TCP handles communications between hosts and provides flow control, multiplexing and reliability. 
    The transport protocols include TCP and User Datagram Protocol, which is sometimes used instead of TCP for special purposes.

    3. The network layer, also called the internet layer, deals with packets and connects independent networks to transport the packets across network boundaries. The network layer protocols are IP and 
    Internet Control Message Protocol, which is used for error reporting.

    4. The physical layer, also known as the network interface layer or data link layer, consists of protocols that operate only on a link -- the network component that interconnects nodes or hosts in the 
    network. The protocols in this lowest layer include Ethernet for local area networks and Address Resolution Protocol.

  UDP
    User Datagram Protocol 
    UDP operates at transport layer. UDP is commonly used for applications that are “lossy” (can handle some packet loss), such as streaming audio and video. It is also used for query-response applications, 
    such as DNS queries.
    He not confirm if the data was received 


    IPV4 and IPV6

    IP - Internet Protocol

The term ip is the protocol responsible for addressing packets at layer 3 of the OSI model, that is, it is responsible for generating an address for your co-computer, or any server, when it is 
connected to the internet. Currently there are two formats ipv4 and ipv6

IPV4: 192.168.0.1
32-bit format (4 Bytes) where each byte can range from 0 to 255

IPV6: 2001:0000:130F:0000:0000:09C0:876A:130B

An IPv6 address is represented as a set of 16-bit hexadecimals separated by colons. An IPv6 address is divided into eight groups, and each 16-bit group is represented by four hexadecimal numbers.

NAT 

NAT stands for network address translation. It's a way to map multiple private addresses inside a local network to a public IP address before transferring the information onto the internet. 
Organizations that want multiple devices to employ a single IP address use NAT, as do most home routers.

Sub-Net 

Sub-net are multiple networks in a single system, this can be used to divide a Enterprise sectors, like commercial, administration, etc.

IP Classes

https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:1358/1*wbYRk65-lnwsWYSFJ656xw.png

Defines the amount of sub-networks and ip addresses available on the system

Decimal to binary 

https://byjus.com/maths/decimal-to-binary/

Domain Name System DNS: translates human readable domain names (for example, www.amazon.com) to machine readable IP addresses (for example, 192.0.2.44). See 1 to 5 to understand the parts of a DNS.

1. Protocol: A set of rules or procedures for transmitting data between electronic devices, like FTP for files and HTPPS for websites.
example: HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, TCP/IP.

2. Subdomain: A subdomain name is a piece of additional information added to the beginning of a website's domain name. It allows websites to 
separate and  organize content for a specific function — such as a blog or an online store — from the rest of your website.
example: www. Blog. Admin.

3. Domain: It's a Alfanumeric adress that link to a ip Adress, searched by the TLD and redirected by routers.
example : google, facebook, orkut.

4. Top Level Domain (TLD): a root domain redirect to a DNS responsable to redirect you to de correct ip 
Example: .ORG .COM .NET.

5.Subdirectory: A subdirectory is a type of website hierarchy under a root domain that uses folders to organize content on a website.

Latency: Time that the system takes to send and receive packages (data).

Cache: stores the data in a memory near you to reduce latency.

Content Delivery Network CDN: A content delivery network is a distributed group of servers that caches content near end users. Learn how CDNs improve load times and reduce costs.

Network Commands on windows:

https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/cyber-security-tutorial/understanding-the-networking-commands

Cisco Packet Tracer, Very useful for creating test networks.